README.md, before:

# azf-statistics
Azure function for handling stats

# Usage
## POST /Stats or POST /Stats/{system}
Creates a statistics document in {system}-collection in statistics database

See the example below for required fields. You can add as many optional fields as you like in addition to the required fields.

### POST /Stats
Example payload
```js
{
  "system": "Acos", // Required when not using system in param (url). System name. New system creates a new collection
  "engine": "azf-acos-interact v1", // Required. e.g. from package json 
  "county": "VTFK", // Optional. If missing autogenerated from DEFAULT_COUNTY environment variable
  "company": "SMM", // Required. Sector
  "department": "Graveteam", // Optional. If missing, company will be set here.
  "description": "Arkivering av gravesøknad og opprettelse av et listeelement i SP. Oppdaterer også kontaktobjektet i 360", // Required. A description of what the statistic element represents
  "projectId": "Prosjekt ID (Hvis det er en kobling til innovasjonsløypa)", // Optional. If not set, will be set to "ingen prosjekttilknytning"
  "type": "SMM - Gravesoknad", // Required. A short searchable type-name that distinguishes the statistic element
  "externalId": "refId fra Acos", // Optional. ID in the external {system}
  // optional fields:
  "optionalField": "23/45678-3", // Optional. anything you like
  "optionalField2": 4567895, // Optional. anything you like
  ...
  "anotherLastOptionalkField": true, // Optional. anything you like
}
```
### POST / Stats/{system}
Example payload - system from url will be used as "system" property and collection in stats db
```js
{
  "engine": "azf-acos-interact v1", // Required. e.g. from package json 
  "county": "VTFK", // Optional. If missing autogenerated from DEFAULT_COUNTY environment variable
  "company": "SMM", // Required. Sector
  "department": "Graveteam", // Optional. If missing, company will be set here.
  "description": "Arkivering av gravesøknad og opprettelse av et listeelement i SP. Oppdaterer også kontaktobjektet i 360", // Required. A description of what the statistic element represents
  "projectId": "Prosjekt ID (Hvis det er en kobling til innovasjonsløypa)", // Optional. If not set, will be set to "ingen prosjekttilknytning"
  "type": "SMM - Gravesoknad", // Required. A short searchable type-name that distinguishes the statistic element
  "externalId": "refId fra Acos", // Optional. ID in the external {system}
  // optional fields:
  "optionalField": "23/45678-3", // Optional. anything you like
  "optionalField2": 4567895, // Optional. anything you like
  ...
  "anotherLastOptionalkField": true, // Optional. anything you like
}
```

## GET /Systems
Returns a list of all systemnames (collections) in the statistics db

Example request
`GET https://{statsurl}/api/Systems`

Example return value
```json
[
	"publish-teams-document",
	"vigo-isi-arkiv",
	"import-files-p360",
	"tullball",
	"Masseutsendelse",
	"littasystem",
	"IOP",
	"onbaording",
	"Digitroll",
	"MinElev",
	"hei med mellomrom",
	"Acos skjema",
	"onboarding",
	"dos-arkivaros"
]
```

## GET /Stats/{system}
Returns stats for {system}

Example request
`GET https://{statsurl}/api/Stats/Acos%20skjema`

Example return value
```json
[
  {
		"_id": "655f398962f1958a50d4eec5",
		"system": "Acos skjema",
		"engine": "azf-acos-interact 1.9.1",
		"createdTimestamp": "2023-11-23T11:37:45.025Z",
		"county": "VFK",
		"company": "Opplæring",
		"department": "EKSAMEN",
		"description": "Sender til elevmappe",
		"projectId": "ingen prosjekttilknytning",
		"externalId": "1287555",
		"type": "Søknad om tilrettelegging på fag, svenne eller kompetanseprøve"
	},
	{
		"_id": "655f511e62f1958a50d4eec6",
		"system": "Acos skjema",
		"engine": "azf-acos-interact 1.9.1",
		"createdTimestamp": "2023-11-23T13:18:22.648Z",
		"county": "VFK",
		"company": "HRMU",
		"department": "Mestring og utvikling",
		"description": "Arkivering av henvendelse til mobbeombud. Skal opprettes en ny sak pr skjema",
		"projectId": "ingen prosjekttilknytning",
		"externalId": "1287567",
		"type": "Henvendelse til mobbeombud"
	}
]
```

### Query params
#### count
?count=true only returns the count of returned documents

Example request
`GET https://{statsurl}/api/Stats/Acos%20skjema?count=true`

Example response
`156`


#### filter
?filter={filter} only returns documents that match the filter

Supported logical operators:
- and
- or
- nor

Supported comparison operators:
- eq
- gt
- gte
- lt
- lte
- ne
(Not implemented until we need it: in, nin)

**When using several logical operators on one level - you must use parenthesis**

Comparisons must be on the format <property> <operator> <value> 

Examples
- `GET https://{statsurl}/api/Stats/Acos%20skjema?filter=createdTimestamp gt 2024-01-01 and createdTimestamp lt 2025-01-01`
- `GET https://{statsurl}/api/Stats/Acos%20skjema?filter=createdTimestamp gt 2024-01-01 and createdTimestamp lt 2025-01-01 and (type eq 'type 1' or type ne type2)`
- `GET https://{statsurl}/api/Stats/Acos%20skjema?filter=createdTimestamp gt 2024-01-01 and createdTimestamp lt 2025-01-01 and (type eq 'type 1' or type ne type2)&count=true` can be combined with query param "count"

The filter is parsed by the horrific function in [parse-query.js](./lib/parse-query.js)

#### select
?select=property1,property2 only returns the selected properties

if omitted, uses default select (in backend): `select=_id,system,engine,createdTimestamp,county,company,department,description,projectId,externalId,type`

Example
`GET https://{statsurl}/api/Stats/Acos%20skjema?select=createdTimestamp,type`

Returns
```json
[
	{
		"_id": "655f398962f1958a50d4eec5",
		"createdTimestamp": "2023-11-23T11:37:45.025Z",
		"type": "Søknad om tilrettelegging på fag, svenne eller kompetanseprøve"
	},
	{
		"_id": "655f511e62f1958a50d4eec6",
		"createdTimestamp": "2023-11-23T13:18:22.648Z",
		"type": "Henvendelse til mobbeombud"
	}
]
```

Example for getting all properties (*)
`GET https://{statsurl}/api/Stats/Acos%20skjema?select=*`

Returns
```json
[
  {
		"_id": "655f398962f1958a50d4eec5",
		"system": "Acos skjema",
		"engine": "azf-acos-interact 1.9.1",
		"createdTimestamp": "2023-11-23T11:37:45.025Z",
		"county": "VFK",
		"company": "Opplæring",
		"department": "EKSAMEN",
		"description": "Sender til elevmappe",
		"projectId": "ingen prosjekttilknytning",
		"externalId": "1287555",
		"type": "Søknad om tilrettelegging på fag, svenne eller kompetanseprøve",
		"documentNumber": "24/00001-12" // Additional property is also returned
	},
	{
		"_id": "655f511e62f1958a50d4eec6",
		"system": "Acos skjema",
		"engine": "azf-acos-interact 1.9.1",
		"createdTimestamp": "2023-11-23T13:18:22.648Z",
		"county": "VFK",
		"company": "HRMU",
		"department": "Mestring og utvikling",
		"description": "Arkivering av henvendelse til mobbeombud. Skal opprettes en ny sak pr skjema",
		"projectId": "ingen prosjekttilknytning",
		"externalId": "1287567",
		"type": "Henvendelse til mobbeombud",
		"documentNumber": "25/00098-3", // Additional property is also returned
		"skole": "Tullball barneskole" // Additional property is also returned
	}
]
```

# Development

- Clone the repo
- Make sure you have azure function core tools installed

```bash
npm i
```

- Create a local.settings.json file
```json
{
  "IsEncrypted": false,
  "Values": {
    "FUNCTIONS_WORKER_RUNTIME": "node",
    "AzureWebJobsStorage": "UseDevelopmentStorage=true",
    "MONGO_STATISTICS_CONNECTION_STRING": "connectionstring",
    "MONGO_DB_STATISTICS_DATABASE": "statistics db name",
    "DEFAULT_COUNTY": "county name"
  }
}
```

### Test the function
```bash
func start
```

Commit message:

Update README.md and Stats API: change select parameter from '*' to 'all' due to Azure WAF restrictions

README.md, after:

# azf-statistics
Azure function for handling stats

# Usage
## POST /Stats or POST /Stats/{system}
Creates a statistics document in {system}-collection in statistics database

See the example below for required fields. You can add as many optional fields as you like in addition to the required fields.

### POST /Stats
Example payload
```js
{
  "system": "Acos", // Required when not using system in param (url). System name. New system creates a new collection
  "engine": "azf-acos-interact v1", // Required. e.g. from package json 
  "county": "VTFK", // Optional. If missing autogenerated from DEFAULT_COUNTY environment variable
  "company": "SMM", // Required. Sector
  "department": "Graveteam", // Optional. If missing, company will be set here.
  "description": "Arkivering av gravesøknad og opprettelse av et listeelement i SP. Oppdaterer også kontaktobjektet i 360", // Required. A description of what the statistic element represents
  "projectId": "Prosjekt ID (Hvis det er en kobling til innovasjonsløypa)", // Optional. If not set, will be set to "ingen prosjekttilknytning"
  "type": "SMM - Gravesoknad", // Required. A short searchable type-name that distinguishes the statistic element
  "externalId": "refId fra Acos", // Optional. ID in the external {system}
  // optional fields:
  "optionalField": "23/45678-3", // Optional. anything you like
  "optionalField2": 4567895, // Optional. anything you like
  ...
  "anotherLastOptionalkField": true, // Optional. anything you like
}
```
### POST / Stats/{system}
Example payload - system from url will be used as "system" property and collection in stats db
```js
{
  "engine": "azf-acos-interact v1", // Required. e.g. from package json 
  "county": "VTFK", // Optional. If missing autogenerated from DEFAULT_COUNTY environment variable
  "company": "SMM", // Required. Sector
  "department": "Graveteam", // Optional. If missing, company will be set here.
  "description": "Arkivering av gravesøknad og opprettelse av et listeelement i SP. Oppdaterer også kontaktobjektet i 360", // Required. A description of what the statistic element represents
  "projectId": "Prosjekt ID (Hvis det er en kobling til innovasjonsløypa)", // Optional. If not set, will be set to "ingen prosjekttilknytning"
  "type": "SMM - Gravesoknad", // Required. A short searchable type-name that distinguishes the statistic element
  "externalId": "refId fra Acos", // Optional. ID in the external {system}
  // optional fields:
  "optionalField": "23/45678-3", // Optional. anything you like
  "optionalField2": 4567895, // Optional. anything you like
  ...
  "anotherLastOptionalkField": true, // Optional. anything you like
}
```

## GET /Systems
Returns a list of all systemnames (collections) in the statistics db

Example request
`GET https://{statsurl}/api/Systems`

Example return value
```json
[
	"publish-teams-document",
	"vigo-isi-arkiv",
	"import-files-p360",
	"tullball",
	"Masseutsendelse",
	"littasystem",
	"IOP",
	"onbaording",
	"Digitroll",
	"MinElev",
	"hei med mellomrom",
	"Acos skjema",
	"onboarding",
	"dos-arkivaros"
]
```

## GET /Stats/{system}
Returns stats for {system}

Example request
`GET https://{statsurl}/api/Stats/Acos%20skjema`

Example return value
```json
[
  {
		"_id": "655f398962f1958a50d4eec5",
		"system": "Acos skjema",
		"engine": "azf-acos-interact 1.9.1",
		"createdTimestamp": "2023-11-23T11:37:45.025Z",
		"county": "VFK",
		"company": "Opplæring",
		"department": "EKSAMEN",
		"description": "Sender til elevmappe",
		"projectId": "ingen prosjekttilknytning",
		"externalId": "1287555",
		"type": "Søknad om tilrettelegging på fag, svenne eller kompetanseprøve"
	},
	{
		"_id": "655f511e62f1958a50d4eec6",
		"system": "Acos skjema",
		"engine": "azf-acos-interact 1.9.1",
		"createdTimestamp": "2023-11-23T13:18:22.648Z",
		"county": "VFK",
		"company": "HRMU",
		"department": "Mestring og utvikling",
		"description": "Arkivering av henvendelse til mobbeombud. Skal opprettes en ny sak pr skjema",
		"projectId": "ingen prosjekttilknytning",
		"externalId": "1287567",
		"type": "Henvendelse til mobbeombud"
	}
]
```

### Query params
#### count
?count=true only returns the count of returned documents

Example request
`GET https://{statsurl}/api/Stats/Acos%20skjema?count=true`

Example response
`156`


#### filter
?filter={filter} only returns documents that match the filter

Supported logical operators:
- and
- or
- nor

Supported comparison operators:
- eq
- gt
- gte
- lt
- lte
- ne
(Not implemented until we need it: in, nin)

**When using several logical operators on one level - you must use parenthesis**

Comparisons must be on the format <property> <operator> <value> 

Examples
- `GET https://{statsurl}/api/Stats/Acos%20skjema?filter=createdTimestamp gt 2024-01-01 and createdTimestamp lt 2025-01-01`
- `GET https://{statsurl}/api/Stats/Acos%20skjema?filter=createdTimestamp gt 2024-01-01 and createdTimestamp lt 2025-01-01 and (type eq 'type 1' or type ne type2)`
- `GET https://{statsurl}/api/Stats/Acos%20skjema?filter=createdTimestamp gt 2024-01-01 and createdTimestamp lt 2025-01-01 and (type eq 'type 1' or type ne type2)&count=true` can be combined with query param "count"

The filter is parsed by the horrific function in [parse-query.js](./lib/parse-query.js)

#### select
?select=property1,property2 only returns the selected properties

if omitted, uses default select (in backend): `select=_id,system,engine,createdTimestamp,county,company,department,description,projectId,externalId,type`

Example
`GET https://{statsurl}/api/Stats/Acos%20skjema?select=createdTimestamp,type`

Returns
```json
[
	{
		"_id": "655f398962f1958a50d4eec5",
		"createdTimestamp": "2023-11-23T11:37:45.025Z",
		"type": "Søknad om tilrettelegging på fag, svenne eller kompetanseprøve"
	},
	{
		"_id": "655f511e62f1958a50d4eec6",
		"createdTimestamp": "2023-11-23T13:18:22.648Z",
		"type": "Henvendelse til mobbeombud"
	}
]
```

Example for getting all properties ('select=all') (cannot use '*' due to azure WAF)
`GET https://{statsurl}/api/Stats/Acos%20skjema?select=all`

Returns
```json
[
  {
		"_id": "655f398962f1958a50d4eec5",
		"system": "Acos skjema",
		"engine": "azf-acos-interact 1.9.1",
		"createdTimestamp": "2023-11-23T11:37:45.025Z",
		"county": "VFK",
		"company": "Opplæring",
		"department": "EKSAMEN",
		"description": "Sender til elevmappe",
		"projectId": "ingen prosjekttilknytning",
		"externalId": "1287555",
		"type": "Søknad om tilrettelegging på fag, svenne eller kompetanseprøve",
		"documentNumber": "24/00001-12" // Additional property is also returned
	},
	{
		"_id": "655f511e62f1958a50d4eec6",
		"system": "Acos skjema",
		"engine": "azf-acos-interact 1.9.1",
		"createdTimestamp": "2023-11-23T13:18:22.648Z",
		"county": "VFK",
		"company": "HRMU",
		"department": "Mestring og utvikling",
		"description": "Arkivering av henvendelse til mobbeombud. Skal opprettes en ny sak pr skjema",
		"projectId": "ingen prosjekttilknytning",
		"externalId": "1287567",
		"type": "Henvendelse til mobbeombud",
		"documentNumber": "25/00098-3", // Additional property is also returned
		"skole": "Tullball barneskole" // Additional property is also returned
	}
]
```

# Development

- Clone the repo
- Make sure you have azure function core tools installed

```bash
npm i
```

- Create a local.settings.json file
```json
{
  "IsEncrypted": false,
  "Values": {
    "FUNCTIONS_WORKER_RUNTIME": "node",
    "AzureWebJobsStorage": "UseDevelopmentStorage=true",
    "MONGO_STATISTICS_CONNECTION_STRING": "connectionstring",
    "MONGO_DB_STATISTICS_DATABASE": "statistics db name",
    "DEFAULT_COUNTY": "county name"
  }
}
```

### Test the function
```bash
func start
```
